# CONTRIBUTING: ProjectName

When contributing to this repository, please first discuss the change you wish to make via issue, email, or any other method with the owners of this repository before making a change. 

Please note we have a [Code of Conduct](CODE-OF-CONDUCT.md), please follow it in all your interactions with the project.

## PULL REQUESTS
1. Ensure any install or build dependencies are removed before the end of the layer when doing a build.
2. Update the README.md with details of changes to the interface, this includes new environment variables, exposed ports, useful file locations and container parameters.
3. Increase the version numbers in any examples files and the README.md to the new version that this Pull Request would represent. The versioning scheme we use is [SemVer](http://semver.org/).
4. You may merge the Pull Request in once you have the sign-off of two other developers, or if you do not have permission to do that, you may request the second reviewer to merge it for you.

## CODE ORGANIZATION
| Directory       |                                                                                                  |
|-----------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|`/`              | Root directory                                                                                   |
| **`/Bin`**           | MSBuild binaries                                                                                 |
|`/Documentation` | Application documentation                                                                        |
|`/Dependencies`  | Application dependencies                                                                         |













&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;`/dep/console` – files that are currently in the internal-only private SDK for the console but we’re working on opening<br>
<br>
<br>
<br>
	* `/dep/DDK` – files lifted wholesale from the public Microsoft DDK so you don’t have to install that. We’re reducing dependencies on these but we still use TAEF (included in here) as our test runner engine
	* `/dep/NT` – some more structures from the DDK, sometimes internal-only/non-public we’re trying to remove.
	* `/dep/telemetry` – Private Microsoft telemetry headers
	* `/dep/wil` – Windows Internal Library – extremely useful for interfacing with Win32/NT/COM APIs. Contains tons of “unique pointer” like syntax for various Win32 APIs and a handful of useful macros to enable cleaner code writing (RETURN_HR_IF, LOG_IF_WIN32_ERROR, etc.)
	* `/dep/win32k` – private headers from the Windows windowing system that we’re trying to migrate off of
* `/ipch` – not checked in is where intellisense data will be generated if you use Visual Studio 2015
* `/obj` – not checked in is where objects will be generated by the MSBuild system
* `/src` – This is the fun one. In the root is common build system data.
	* `/src/host` – The meat of the windows console host. This includes buffer, input, output, windowing, server management, clipboard, and most interactions with the console host window that aren’t stated anywhere else. We’re trying to pull things out that are reusable into other libraries, but it’s a work in progress
		* `/src/host/lib` – Builds the reusable LIB copy of the host
		* `/src/host/dll` – Packages LIB into conhostv2.dll to be put into the OS C:\windows\system32\
		* `/src/host/exe` – Packages LIB into OpenConsole.exe currently used for testing without replacing your system32 copy
		* `/src/host/tools` – Random odds and ends that make testing/debugging/development a bit easier
			* ...to be doc’d, each of what these are
		* `/src/host/ut_host` – Contains complete unit test library for everything we’ve managed to get unit tests on. We’d like all new code to contribute appropriate unit tests in here
		* `/src/host/ft_api` – Feature level tests for anything that changes the way we interact with the outside world via the API. Building these up as we work as well
		* `/src/host/ft_cjk` – Double-wide/double-byte specific Chinese/Japanese/Korean language tests that previously had to be run in a different environment. To be merged into ft_api one day
		* `/src/host/ft_resize` – Special test for resizing/reflowing the buffer window
		* `/src/host/ft_uia` – Currently disabled (for not being very reliable) UI Automation tests that we are looking to re-enable and expand to do UI Automation coverage of various human interactions
		* `/src/host/...` - The files I’ll list out below
	* `/src/inc` – Include files that are shared between the host and some of the other libraries. This is only some of them. The include story is kind of a mess right now, but we’d like to clean it up at some point
	* `/src/propslib` – Library shared between console host and the OS shell “right click a shortcut file and modify console properties” page to read/write user settings to and from the registry and embedded within shortcut LNK data
	* `/src/renderer` – Refactored extraction of all activities related to rendering the text in the buffers onto the screen
		* `/src/renderer/base` – Base interface layer providing non-engine-specific rendering things like choosing the data from the console buffer, deciding how to lay out or transform that data, then dispatching commands to a specific final display engine
		* `/src/renderer/gdi` – The GDI implementation of rendering to the screen. Takes commands to “draw a line” or “fill the background” or “select a region” from the base and turns them into GDI calls to the screen. Extracted from original console host code.
		* `/src/renderer/inc` – Interface definitions for all renderer communication
	* `/src/terminal` – Virtual terminal support for the console. This is the sequences that are found in-band with other text on STDIN/STDOUT that command the display to do things. This is the *nix way of controlling a console.
		* `/src/terminal/parser` – This contains a state machine and sorting engine for feeding in individual characters from STDOUT or STDIN and decoding them into the appropriate verbs that should be performed
		* `/src/terminal/adapter` – This converts the verbs from the interface into calls on the console API. It doesn’t actually call through the API (for performance reasons since it lives inside the same binary), but it tries to remain as close to an API call as possible. There are some private extensions to the API for behaviors that didn’t exist before this was written that we’ve not made public. We don’t know if we will yet or force people to use VT to get at them.
	* `/src/tsf` – Text Services Foundation. This provides IME input services to the console. This was historically used for only Chinese, Japanese, and Korean IMEs specifically on OS installations with those as the primary language. It was in the summer of 2016 unrestricted to be able to be used on any OS installation with any IME (whether or not it will display correctly is a different story). It also was unrestricted to allow things like Pen and Touch input (which are routed via IME messages) to display properly inside the console from the TabTip window (the little popup that helps you insert pen/touch writing/keyboard candidates into an application)
